## Minutes for Tues, Oct 11, 2022

**Attendees:**

* Santiago Carmuega (TxPipe)
* Cody Butz (Indigo)
* Colin Hobbins (Obsidian Systems)
* Deniz Dalkilic (Paribus)
* Zhao Tan (Fourier Labs)
* Jack Ho (Fourier Labs)
* Charles Augu (Smart Chain)

**Interested parties:**

* Andrew Sutherland - IOG
* Simon Thompson - IOG
* Dominika Kopec (IOG)
* Hans Lahe (IOG)
* Simon Thompson (IOG)
* Johnny Nguyen (IOG)
* Ziyang Liu (IOG)
* Joseph Fajen (IOG)
* Anita Jovic (IOG)
* Ignacio Calderon de la Barca (IOG)
* Shruti Appiah (IOG)
* Adriana Saez - IOG

**Apologies:**

* Ben Harts (Mlabs)
* Interested party - Aric Chang (Wave Financials)

**Minutes:**

* **Cardano Well-Architected Framework #28**

It’s been proposed to build a well-documented framework with best practices on how to approach the development regarding security, performance, reliability, monitoring, tracing, all of those disciplines in a single place that developers can use as guidelines when approaching a new project. It should be a description on how to architect the project from different perspectives.

Some internal work is being done at IOG and feedback for the community is very important as to what is the prioritization for these different aspects? for example, Cardano API, should be the primary public entry point, interface to the Cardano technology for Haskell developers. Are we referring to something very Haskell specific around Cardano API or something more at the level of REST interface or web back end?

Two different frameworks are needed.

**Canonical SDK framework:** for Haskell developers to interact with the Cardano technology,

**Agnostic technology framework,** which this issue refers to, provides concepts and best practices, regardless of the programming language used (Haskell or otherwise). This would be a higher level than the Canonical SDK framework, more of a system architect, rather than a smart contract or off-chain component developer.

A lot of articles, documentation exist about best practices, the key here is to have a framework. There is a lot to learn from how the cloud providers approach these problems..

Having an organized framework provides system architects something more concrete to work with, that can be updated and improved as things move along and best practices arise from community or IOG.

Some kind of level of authority is needed to define the best practices.

As a starting point it was proposed to run an architecture workshop between IOG and people from the community to present their view on what a well architecture on Cardano looks like.

Discussion to create a wiki was mentioned with different opinions within the working group. More thought needs to be put on.

It was suggested to include the IOG education team into these calls so questions like, is this a training onboarding (education)? or is this really technical documentation for smart contracts?

It was highlighted that this framework should be broader than smart contracts, there is a lot of focus on best practices, education for on-chain components, and there is a lot happening outside that needs to be looked at. The user would be more for a system architect

How can this be done in a useful way without reference apps? The full stack is very important as otherwise these things are siloed. A reason on how they connect to the rest of the project is necessary. The idea could be the use of a canonical reference app that could be used to create the different links and gradually become more general  - IOG is working on some initial documentation proposals that Andrew will share with the working groups before building anything.

However, the idea of the new framework refers to how to organize the different components agnostic from the language and tools being used. There is an intermediate step between the reference app and the development guidelines for best practices.

A risk was raised as external parties who are opinionated, will be using Catalyst to fund the development of their stack, so to create a framework that shows that you don't actually need to use their stack it is ok; It's just eventually incentives may get a little bit tricky.

* **Evaluate node-to-client communication via TCP #27**

The node-to-client protocols are only available through Unix sockets.

The rationale behind this solution is not known so the assumption is that it has to do with security concerns so the node-to-client protocols are not exposed to the network.

It will be really useful in certain scenarios, to be able to access the node-to-client protocols from the TCP stack and not be constrained by the node to be running the consumer within the same Unix namespace as the node.

Why is this built this way? Understanding the rationale would be useful so a decision on the solution can be made if there is a missing part.

This is more a networking level or even a Cardano node architecture level question. This needs to be followed with the right team.

As a workaround, many teams use the socket as a way to bypass the limitation but it has its downsides (connectivity, etc..). If we could have direct access through TCP, deployment will be much simpler.

This is interesting as it relates to the previous item, and the need of the framework. (How do you do scaling, off-balancing, how do you connect...)

Ziyang is also very supportive of this solution so as an internal champion within Plutus can try to push it.

For the moment there are more than 600 requests in the backlog, so no need to raise a new ticket. Also it was noted that IO is working on defining a process to build the pipeline, start triaging these issues and escalating the ones that are really a priority considering the community feedback and that is why this forum is very important.  

For the moment the conversations on this matter will be followed in this request.

* **Ouroboros mini-protocols full specification #26**

There is very useful and complete documentation regarding the state machines around ouroboros mini protocols, but they are generic over implementations of the ledger. Some parts of the protocol data models are not defined by the specs

Users have been trying to extract from the codebase the missing parts but it is difficult, as these are distributed scattered through many source files so the users cannot be sure if it is the latest version or not.

This is a request to extend the current specs to describe not only the ouroboros mini protocols from the generic perspective but also in its concrete implementation for the Cardano ledger.

This is important and certainly useful for IO so it is a matter of prioritizing internally  

This example (https://arsmagna.xyz/docs/network-lsq/) was reviewed and suggested to be pursued by the community.

Andrew’s views were that this is a case of reverse engineering the code which is a terrible way to write documentation. However it could be a useful way to produce the creation of this documentation.

IO protocols experts should review this, and contribute to the “wiki” to make sure the information is accurate. This could be an interesting collaboration model between the community and IO experts

**Actions:**

* Adriana - Share recording within internal IOG stakeholders to show the importance of these meetings and specially the 3 requests made.
* Adriana - find internal resources as representatives from the node.

Cardano Well-Architected Framework #28

* Invite a member of the IOG education team
* Santiago/ Ignacio - to browse through the frameworks, extract some structure regarding what topics they touch and how they approach them and update the proposal
* All - start to define what are the broadest technical requirements or functional requirements that the solution would need to be able to support

Evaluate node-to-client communication via TCP #27

* Follow-up internally (networking level or Cardano node architecture teams)  to understand the rationale of the solution and comment in github
* Ziyang to follow-up with Marconi architecture

Ouroboros mini-protocols full specification #26

* https://arsmagna.xyz/docs/network-lsq/ to be reviewed internally by SME and contribute.
* Adriana - research internally and find out how this proposal could be progressed. 
