# Minutes for Tuesday, Nov 15, 2022

Attendance:
Developer community:
Ben Hart - Mlabs
'alexusgr'
Andrew WestBerg - DripDropz
'Catsper'
Colin Hobbins - Lode Wallet
James Dunseith
JHO
Jingles
ManiaKugel
Santiago Carmuega - TxPipe
Sebastian Pabon
Shibu
szist
Tan
whitevo
Maksymilian Brodowicz - Optim/MLabs

IOG:
Simon Thompson
Adriana Saez
Anita Jovic
Ignacio Calderon de le Barca


Minutes:

- Next steps on existing tickets, issue tagging scheme
note: there were  many newcomers here, Ben provides a high level overview of how the working group documents issues and proposals)
Ben: Over the weekend i went through some standing issues and added a number of next-steps for each item, is there anything in particular we'd like to look at the well-architected framework item.
(with no items for specific discussion, we move to the next agenda item)

- focus: Well architected framework
Maksymilian: Can we get a high-level Intro to the topic?
Ben: So the goal is to provide a set of solutions to resolve many of the most common engineering problems across _most_ protocols. What would next steps for this look like? is it more of a documentation project or is it going to require a serious codebase?
Santiago: I think it will be mainly documentation
Simon: Perhaps this could be a subcommittee
Maksymilian: and run it through the CIP process.
Simon: Or it could be owned by this group
James volunteered to work on such a subcommittee
Santiago: Perhaps this can be an ongoing project, the table of contents likely needs to be expanded.
Ben: Unfortuntately I will need to run, if the meeting wishes to continue i'll just ask for someont to please update the minutes that i'll be making a pull request for.

(notes from discord - credit: Shibu)
-I understand it is a part Best practice documentation and code snippet project
People involved need to be familiar with build dApps on Cardano to recommend Best Practices
A subgroup of 3-5 people will be better to prioritize tasks and assign each to the members 


- New items for discussion

- Next week's agenda (to include testing with Simon)

