# Minutes for October 4th, 2022

Attendance
Developers:
- Ben Hart, Mlabs
- Santiago Carmuega, TxPipe
- Cody Butz, Indigo
- Colin Hobbins, Lode Wallet
Interested Parties:
- Addie Girouard, IOG
- Adriana Saez, IOG
- Andrew Sutherland, IOG
- Anita Jovic, IOG
- Carlos Lopez de Lara, IOG
- Hans Lahe, IOG
- Ignacio Calderon de la Barça, IOG
- Johnny Nguyen, IOG/DCF
- Simon Thompson, IOG
- Ziyang Liu, IOG

## 1. Carlos Lopez de Lara - Cardano CLI + API
- transactions should be easier to build using new features added to CLI + Cardano API
- What are the features that are needed by developers?
- Ben: happy to volunteer some MLabs developers for a focus group

## 2. Hardfork Retrospective @ IOG
- Simon: there is an ongoing internal process to refine how we do Hard Fork events
- What went well, what could have been better, how could things be improved, what should we keep doing.
- Ben: the new testnets are great, the naming scheme could be clarified a great deal, the fact that the HF process required two epoch boundaries could have been better communicated.
- Simon: please contact me on the discord with additional notes.

## 3. Top CIPs
- Ben: I've compiled a list of the Cips which both currently exist AND require change in either plutus or the ledger - and picked out the ones that we think could have the best impact on developer experience over Plutus v3 and v4
- Andrew: consider CIP 38 as an addition to the list
- Simon: Is the CIP process fit for purpose? 
- Colin: It would be nice if there was clearer handoff between the CIP editors and the implementors.
- Ben: Very open to additional CIPs being added to this list here is the issue:https://github.com/input-output-hk/Developer-Experience-working-group/issues/20 

## 4. Multilang support
- Ben: I've compiled a list of the known API's for either creating a plutus smart contract or for preparing offchain transactions across programming languages:  https://github.com/input-output-hk/Developer-Experience-working-group/issues/21
- Colin: 1-1 mappings of tools between Ethereum + Cardano would be really helpful
- Shruti: this is really useful and can help us to drive adoption.
- Ben: I want to underscore that to drive adoption we may want to provide tools with sourcemapping and documentation where the user can choose the example lanaguage.
- Johnny: a good example of documentation for multi languages:  https://www.algolia.com/developers/
