## Minutes for Tues, Nov 21, 2022

**Attendees:**
Simon Thompson (IOG)
<br>Tevo Sacks (Swarm)
<br>Nick Nicely ([]Labs)
<br>Matthias Sieber (Loxe Inc.)
<br>Ignacio
<br>Anita Jovic (IOG)
<br>Alex (Gimbalabs)


**Agenda:** 
* dApp testing. 


## From Discord:
- Ben, MLabs: 
>we use [plutip](https://github.com/mlabs-haskell/plutip) for testing on a disposable chain and [plutus-simple-model](https://github.com/mlabs-haskell/plutus-simple-model) for doing property or unit tests - it tests using the same validation functions that the ledger does - but unlike plutip it doesn't run a full blockchain so it's easier to run high volumes of simple tests.

- Philip DiSarro: 
>`AproposTx` is great MLabs testing tool, it extends `hedgehog` with plutus specific functionality, and allows generating comprehensive Script Contexts for property based testing.

- Simon Thompson:
  - IOG released a [survey](https://input-output.typeform.com/to/qQf29lv1),  please invest time into completing it. 

- Santiago [TxPipe]:

>Action items on my side are:
>- Identify anyone interested in contributing to well-architected documentation effort. @jamesdunseith-gimbalabs and @BenHart-mlabs have already volunteered (ping me if interested).
>- Reach consensus on an preliminary scope for the framework (topics, level of detail, etc)



**Actions:**
1. Santiago, @jamesdunseith-gimbalabs and @BenHart-mlabs: <br>
Reach consensus on an preliminary scope for [Cardano Well-Architected Framework](https://github.com/input-output-hk/Developer-Experience-working-group/issues/28) (topics, level of detail, etc)
2. Alex: keep minutes. 
3. Alex: contact dev teams for inputs on their approaches to testing dApps.

## Questions:

* What testing tools or features are missing?
* How existing tools can be integrated with each other?
* How are we testing on-chain code?
* How do we facilitate development of testing standards similar to Cardano Well-Architected Framework?


## Minutes:

**Simon Thompson:**
* IOG sees the need to promote auditing and certification for smart contracts, to raise standards in the dApp development community. Prior to development of certification standards, IOG seeks community input on the state of the testing tools in Cardano Community. 
* Certification WG will take ownership of this project. 
* The will be a workshop on Quvik in early 2023.

**Nick Nicely:** 
What's the scope of this project, the dimensions which we are looking at: security, throughput, etc?
We are using unit testing in Go code, the project is aimed at sustainability and onboarding new developers, the tool is and API written in Go to generate Marlowe code.
Unit tests: compare test script output to the playground, they produce same json.

**Matthias Sieber:** using nix in onboarding projects like Gimbalabs PPBL increases barriers to entry for new developers, there should be a tool to create local testnet using docker.

**Tevo Sacks:** Shared  [personal notes for the meeting](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVPAiUs4A=/?share_link_id=406193279833)

**szist:**
dapp contracts testing: ply, tasty
as mostly unit tests, but for actual integration testing doing tests on preview/preprod networks. (+ context builder), but for now most dapps will also need some tooling with that private chain - like ogmios/db-sync/etc.
