## Minutes for Tues, Dec 13, 2022

We're a community-driven group dedicated to identifying and presenting potential solutions to developer experience problems that span the Cardano ecosystem. Once a potential solution is identified, we work with actors in the ecosystem to find sponsorship to implement a solution.

#### Agenda:
 - WG Process: roles, responsibilities, etc.
 - [Cardano Well-Architected Framework](https://github.com/input-output-hk/Developer-Experience-working-group/issues/28) 

#### Questions and Notes:
- KPI suggestion from Anita and Simon: WG should publish on Cardano Developer Portal.

- WG Goals are problem sensing and promoting initiatives by group members.
- WG process:
	- co-hairs rotation period is 6 months.
	- Initiatives: volunteering, reaching out to experts.
	- Github Repo: Main section, Projects, Issues and [Board](https://github.com/orgs/input-output-hk/projects/53/views/9); Discussions; 
	
* How do we facilitate development of Cardano Well-Architected Framework?
	- https://github.com/input-output-hk/Developer-Experience-working-group/pull/43
	* [Gudelines and best practices for testing](https://github.com/input-output-hk/Developer-Experience-working-group/discussions/41)
	* What products and services are missing or could be added? 
	* How does DevExp WG facilitate better access to tooling and services on Cardano?
	* Philip and Igodlab: Is there a tradeoff between accessibility of tooling in Cardano and  safeguards against ponzinomics and scam projects?

#### Action points
- organize content in the repository.

## Minutes:

## Well-architected Framework
#### James & Santiago: 
The goal of CWAF is to open Cardano Development to as many people as possible.
In the scope of framework, **principles** are implementation-agnostic general guidelines that are expected to be more or less stable through time. **Best Practices** refer to implementations and may change with new tooling.
**Deprecation logic** is an explicit description of how BP's get absolete and replaced.

#### Nyk:
Importance of well documented API -> better UX, which is different from code maintainabiity - which aims at better UX for the dev team.

### Simon, Ben
How does work on testing fit into this framework?

#### Santiago
What are entrypoints for developers?

#### Ben:
Widen reference implementations: the principles of CWAF may be illustrated by various means, e.g. code implementation, tutorial, a paper, an article, a video recording from a conference, etc.
For example CWAF could include list of known security vulnerabilities, performance issues, etc.

#### Simon
Resources such as CWAF require regular maintanance and investment. Who will own that?

#### Nyk, Simon, James, Santiago:
How can we get from list of princilples and best practices to a minimal checklist of 
actionable points? 
Some action points may include guidelines for maintanace: regularity and scope of action needed.
CWAF could have a list of design choices and their comparative evaluation.


## WG process:
#### Ben: 
Original plan was to ahve 4 co-chairs
Charter
Make sure Discord and Github are connected; 
Review README.md

#### Santiago:
How do people join in?
How do we expose the group to those who would be most valuable members of the group?

#### Ignacio: 
Charter revamp is due in February
What are platforms that could be used to expose the WG?

#### Philip:
Incentives for WG members.
