## Minutes for Tues, Oct 18, 2022

**Attendees:**

* Ben Harts (Mlabs)
* Santiago Carmuega (TxPipe)
* Colin Hobbins (Obsidian Systems)
* Zhao Tan (Fourier Labs)
* Jack Ho (Fourier Labs)
* Charles Augu (Smart Chain)
* Quinn P

**Interested parties:**

* Dominika Kopec (IOG)
* Konstantinos Lambrou (IOG)
* Johnny Nguyen (IOG)
* Ziyang Liu (IOG)
* Joseph Fajen (IOG)
* Anita Jovic (IOG)
* Ignacio Calderon de la Barca (IOG)
* Adriana Saez - (IOG)

**Apologies:**

* Cody Butz (Indigo)
* Deniz Dalkilic (Paribus)
* Interested party - Andrew Sutherland (IOG)
* Interested party - Simon Thompson (IOG)
* Interested party - Hans Lahe (IOG)
* Interested party -Shruti Appiah (IOG)
* Interested party - Aric Chang (Wave Financials)

**Minutes:**

* **Charter** - No comments have been made on Charter therefore we are in a position to merge.

* **Agenda** will be shared in advance. Not all IOG resources are needed in the weekly meeting so going forward agenda will be shared in advance so relevant IOG resources can decide if attendance is required.

* **API** breakage and compatibility resource. #25

Different suggestion have been made:

Having a built machine that can check any new commit on master for today's apps, or tools that are outside of iOS preview too. A build machine that goes and checks which versions of Plutus will be built. So it offers a new commit on master which commits along the master branch it will build with from Plutus, meaning running eight or 10 builds back so users can see within a reasonable range, who is going to have to upgrade Plutus in order to use this.

A further step could be taken, documenting the API changes and in some cases where they can be automated, automating the way. Something like GHC to actually look at the ASDs, find where the API breakages occur and automatically fix them or at least, as the user upgrades have that document surfaced to the developer that there is an API breakage and some recommendations about how to fix it.

API changes it's one of the main pain points as a developer and having some straightforward way to understand them, get notified and read about them makes a lot of sense.

The solution proposed goes beyond having a change log (this presumes that the developer has gone back and tested against all previous builds). Often building compatibilities are almost implicit. Usually the Plutus apps will bump to a new version of Plutus and it is not always clear which previous versions it will be built with.

The goal is to have a source of truth where people can look at all of the Cardano facing IOG & ecosystem tooling.

It was added that wherever this is done a readme section should be added providing a kind of hand holding for junior developers teaching them about the interplay between this and CI or whatever the case is.

The proposal is about limiting API breakage or making it clear when an API breaks. Often, the breakages have clear solutions and where possible it is worthwhile to find ways to automate those solutions, or surface them to the user more easily.

More details regarding the proposed solution in terms of automating breakages needs to be added into the issue. Initial solution could be:

Mechanisms such as live GHC that you can use to look for these API breakages used in the individual code base, and update them automatically.
Having a resource where the user can see that there was a recent update across the ecosystem that informs the user of changes in the particular API breakage.

Change logs are not doing a great job surfacing those API breakages and some projects are not even tracking a change log. Tie the projects with a Readme

The emphasis is on a single source of truth where everything is listed and the use for each of the tools listed.

It was proposed to keep track of which GHC versions the individual tools will build with as there is no clear direction on what to expect there or its interplay with the other things. It was proposed that having a CI CD job ensuring that compatibility is maintained with certain GHC versions could be the way. Getting clarity about **GHC next versions, and the compatibility story** will be raised as a separate issue.

It was agreed that more quantitative evidence is needed. Different efforts have been discussed that would relieve some of these issues. Agreed to move this discussion into a proposal and seek out champions to help bringing this into the world

It was discussed the option to write a new **CIP regarding Off-chain tools**, what are the standards to define them.

Off-chain tool is anything that doesn't run on-chain. Any tool that needs to interact with the chain, execute processes, work with data and not be a smart contract could potentially be called an off-chain component so it’s hard to provide a strict definition. However, the PAB would fall under this category and requires some contextualization. Therefore to give a strict definition, some alternatives and usage in a framework has value.

This will be approached as part of the Cardano Well-Architected Framework #28 defining best practices rather than a CIP

As part of this issue it was discussed that it might be useful to explore a taxonomy first. Having  a taxonomy for the different components and types of applications will be interesting to have. A lot of what has been discussed already exists in different places. More case studies or examples would be helpful.
We have https://jan-bernatik.medium.com/introduction-to-flow-blockchain-7532977c8af8 however there is a little of  https://developers.flow.com/learn/kitty-items .

It was agreed to keep working on the Cardano Well-Architected Framework #28

A more broad discussion of **tools that fall outside of transaction building and architecture** will be analyzed by Ben. How do you actually orchestrate these tools together to build a Dapp? How do you remix these tools?

Joseph is interested in collaborating with the group on gathering high level topics to start delineating some documentation of a process. How do we describe the overall process of Dapp creation? Collaborating and playing the role of maintaining/ outlining documentation, resources.
There is a high need for this.

* **End-to-end testing for wallets (on disposable testnets)** was explained. This refers to end to end testing, including a front end on a reproducible test net.

The biggest barrier as far as having reproducible arbitrary test nets is that the developer could run in CI and test things not properly. A wallet needs to enable arbitrary block frosts URLs, as well as arbitrary nodes.
A health scape testnet with exactly the same parameters and model as Mainnet that is just congested and miserable so developers can use it for battle test new product launch.

The dream solution would be a debug capability similar to what truffle does in the solidity world. As a developer it is really important to have a reproducible testnet that can be set-up real quick and then just shut it down.

Cardano Testnet is in the Cardano node repo. This is Mainnet behavior where the developer provides the protocol parameters needed.
https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/tree/master/cardano-testnet

* A new issue was presented to **make the protocol parameters available from the HTTP service** to have tools that can easily query a set of protocol parameters that will match Mainnet or Testnet.

**Actions:**

* Ben - To add more details regarding the proposed solution in terms of automating breakages needs to be added into the issue.
* Ben & Colin to raise an issue regarding GHC 9.2. GHC next versions, and the compatibility story
* Ben & Joseph to coordinate that there are not duplicated efforts
Transaction building - Santiago is going to lead this champion through the well architected framework part.
* Ben - To look at categorizing other types of tools. There are around four or five distinct types of tools, but there's actually multiple tools emerging and competing over certain pieces of that.
* Ben to raise a new issue regarding making the protocol parameters available from the HTTP service
* Invite David Arnold who has been maintaining & building the Cardano world repo to a meeting to provide a better understanding of the Cardano world.
