# Development Experience Working group - Tuesday, August 30, 2022


Agenda


* Github procedures
* Community engagement and developer feedback 


Minutes


* Github procedures and rights to merge. This is a community-led initiative therefore the community should have these rights. As new members join this working group this will be decided
* Issues will lead to Pull-requests in the Github workflow. 
* Ideally the initial drafts should be written in markdown in github as a branch for transparency and visibility to all the members. However it was mentioned that on some occasions developers prefer to work together in a google doc for a couple days and then put it as a single markdown file when it is in its final stage and before it gets accepted. The idea is to keep the workflow as simple as possible for the users. If a side group of developers wants to work on a document they can add the link to initial issue so people are aware that they are working on a proposal and put it as PR at the final stages
* For visibility and to gather feedback from other members of the community, the community and ecosystem team will help launch a developer experience digest where some of the outputs from the working group will be shared. This is an initial ideal and needs to be refined. 
* It was clear that until we don't have more participants and actual proposals are being written down the above is just a draft idea.
* The processes will be clearly defined as more people are engaged and we learn from the process.
* Priorizacion, voting, etc… are examples of key points that will be defined in due time.
* Minutes & actions will be published in Github so if people missed one meeting they know what was discussed and up to date.
* Proposals are the key purpose of this working group so it would be interesting to understand how the developer experience has changed for beginners over time. Understanding this will help identify where the gaps are. 
* Community and Ecosystem team proposed different alternatives to help developers that this group could maybe support 
   * Mentoring/ buddy partner for a couple of weeks 
   * Ask questions to the community for this group to pick and publish in digest
* Community and Ecosystem team and Wave joined the call as they are helping to engage with more developers to join the developer experience working group 


Actions:


IOG - to work on a Developer experience working group Digest plan . This is still in the early stages. The proposed plan will be shared in due time when more developers join and proposals can be shared. 
IOG - prepare interview questions to understand current developer experience. What tools they use, blockers, issues, where they use as a source for documentation…. The objective is to discover the technical engineering part. Draft version to be shared in Discord for the members to share feedback
IOG/ Wave - to engage with developers to collaborate in the working group.
IOG - Publish draft/ example of the charter document in github. This will be an example/ proposal for the working group to update, define and agree. 
Community - to start adding proposals. 


Updates as of 2nd September 2022


Wave and IO are reaching out to developers to invite them to collaborate with this initiative. Some new members from the community will join on Tuesday.
Next week’s meeting will start 30 min later. Andrew Sutherland and Ger Moroney will join the meeting to share their views on how we can collaborate together.