## Minutes for Tues, Dec 06, 2022

We're a community-driven group dedicated to identifying and presenting potential solutions to developer experience problems that span the Cardano ecosystem. Once a potential solution is identified, we work with actors in the ecosystem to find sponsorship to implement a solution.

#### Agenda:
 - [Cardano Well-Architected Framework](https://github.com/input-output-hk/Developer-Experience-working-group/issues/28) 
	 - https://github.com/input-output-hk/Developer-Experience-working-group/pull/43
 - WG Process: roles, responsibilities, etc.

#### Questions and Notes:

* How do we facilitate development of [Cardano Well-Architected Framework]()?
* [Gudelines and best practices for testing](https://github.com/input-output-hk/Developer-Experience-working-group/discussions/41)
* What products and services are missing or could be added? 

## Minutes:
1. Cardano Well Architected Framework (help needed)
The items outlined in the document should be explored and expanded.
Links to open source documents and examples is one way to provide such documentation.
Another way is interviewing experts in the community and writing Community Docs.
Yet another way is to contribute to Cardano StackOverflow

2. WG process
* Transparent policy on PR approval is required
* Discussions and Issues
* [Board](https://github.com/orgs/input-output-hk/projects/53/views/9)
* (Simon, Anita) Us WG space for unstable and in-dev ideas, and once 'released', the best way is to post on Cardano Developer Portal

3. Sebastian Pabon: How does DevExp WG facilitate better access to tooling and services on Cardano?
(Jingles, Phillip, Matthias, Igodlab, Alex)
- What are good practices around using templates ?
* When we talk about Developer Experience, do we talk about UX for builders on Cardano? What is the scope of Developer Experience?
* Balancing Learning Curve.



