# Minutes for Developer Experience Working Group - March 28, 2023


## Attendance
Aleksei
BenHart
FluxCap
Ignacio
JamesDunseith
Jose Seraquive
Las
Philip DiSarro
Sebastian Pabon
waalge
Marshall Swatt

# Minutes


Topic: Open call for new issues to prioritize
Ben: I wanted to start by refocusing now that daylight savings is over, we've spent several weeks investigating rabbit holes. so now might be a good time to talk about what's changed in the ecosystem, and what the biggest problems are today.
Philip: For folks who don't know me, In addition to work I do with Ikigai, I also work as an instructor at Emurgo academy. I was skeptical when I first joined this group, but i have to say there have been some real improvements.  From IOG working to improve docker support, to using some key new frameworks in their public projects like the sidechain project.  Things are getting a lot easier for students and the new plutus pioneer program is doing a lot of things right.
Ben: That's really great news,  What are the outstanding problems?
Philip: Now that the basics are covered, I would say design patterns are the next major hurdle, The Plutonomicon is really the only resource out there.
Ben: Yeah, that makes sense, the Plutonomicon itself was always a stop-gap that was assembled ina scramble while trying to ship, as a way of describing ideas from our research. though a lot of that work was really about trying to overcome the lack of reference inputs before the vasil hardfork.
Philip: I'm actually saying there should be a more polished/central official resource for ways of building these kinds of nontrivial onchain architectures.

Topic: Emulators
Marshall: Is there a need out there for a standalone Emulator Binary?
Philip: Not desperately, we have a number of emulators across the ecosystem.
Ben: I'd say the only real problem with existing emulators lately is that there isn't a binary that has the same API as the cardano node itself, nothing is language-agnostic. everything is packed away as part of one library or the other, a lot of them requiring haskell.

Topic: Other Business, Updates, and Next Week's Agenda
Ben: Co-chairs - we still need them.  If you're looking for a way to give back to the cardano community and have something to the tune of 2-5 hours a week available, we'd really appreciate if you'd get involved, let us know in these meetings, on the #devexp-general discord channel, or via DM if you're interested.
aleksei: There have been a lot of updates from Plank labs and the standalone example
Ignacio: this could be next week's meeting if that's ok.
Ben: it is.

Ben: Last week we spoke about centralized caches as a way to help developers avoid long sync times - @waalge pointed out cardanosnapshots.io - which is a great resource! However my team quickly noticed that they don't snapshot the new preprod and preview testnets, only the legacy testnet.
Philip: db-sync's repository also links to caches for db-sync and needs to start including the new testnets as well
Marshall: I'll ask the dbsync team about that.
Ben: Thanks for your time everyone, see you next week!
