# Developer Experience Working Group - Minutes for April 18 2023

## Attendance
Anita Jovic
Ben Hart
IronFortress (IronFortress)
Marshall Swatt (Mattchain)
Santiago Carmuega
Sebastian Pabon
Steve Lockhart
lley154


## Minutes
### Bringing more developers into the group


George: it seems like we have a turnout issue, as well as a number of participants are non-developers, yet it should be the working group's priority to involve them, it's my understanding that we have a number of product owners, and that may be very useful to developers in the ecosystem. The question is how do we get more developers involved?   it's understood that funding can be quite limited for actually solving these problems. However the cataloging and prioritizing of issues can be valuable for anyone looking to build or improve these situations.

Ben: we also spoke a bit about possibly making recordings of these discussions public like a podcast.

Jon Bauer: That could be really handy as well - it can help address some of the problems that come up from daylight savings

George: We could also bring in open source community maintainers as well. 
Ben: Is there any objection to taking this working group in this direction?

Note: only positive reactions provided

George: We could potentially solicit a lot of these guests from the IOG community discord - and use it as a means of attracting developers.

Anita: It could be good to move in this direction (toward office hours format) - perhaps with a balance toward initiatives as well.

Marshall: I know we were looking at doing office hours for the smart contract team.

lley154: I'm on the Helios team and would be happy to get involved with this working group. at the very least it would allow for loose alignment on how we onboard developers to these alternative languages.

George: Has anyone else seen Rosetta Code? it would be interesting to see the same problems solved across multiple languages.



### Next week agenda items

Ben:
  - Production deployment
  - Adjusting the Working group format toward a public facing recording
