# Minutes - Developer Experience Working Group - March 14, 2023


## Attendance
Alexeusgr
Benhart
Santiago Carmuega
Steve Lockhart



## Minutes
1. Proliferation of wallets
- Ben: stumbling into the meeting - it looks like many of our regular attendees may have been effected by daylight savings time, i'll double check our scheduling.
- Ben: a topic that came up was the proliferation of wallets, we have like 15 different wallets,  Last week was sort of wallet-security week on twitter.
- Steve: it seems like a lot of devs are using either Eternl or Nami exclusively, there must be a better story for testnet compatibility
- Ben: Eternl is pretty tricky to support, multi address wallets are all quite tricky.
- Steve: I know the developers of game-changer wallet. Not sure how they really earn any money
- Santiago: There are a lot of different wallets that have very different opinions about when to balance or who builds the transaction
- Ben: Balancing is interesting, currently dApp developers are dealing with this, and i'm not entirely sure that they should
- Santiago: It would be great if we could find a user-friendly way to provide balancing options, without exposing the UTXO, or by making it a power-user feature

2. Sync Time & Caching
- Ben: @Santiago - you may have some good input here, though I want to discuss this again when we have more people present.  Today, syncing a node & indexer from scratch can take multiple days. Essentially i'd say we have two demographics who have very different needs (1) the demographic of decentralization maximalists who want cryptographic assurance that the chain is authentic, and (2) Developers who just want to place transactions as quickly as possible.
- Santiago: Yes, on TxPipe we're mainly concerned with developers, so when we spin up a node, we copy in all of the syncing up to a given epoch, so we're only validating a tiny percentage of the chain in a decentralized manner. Mithril will also help with this, However i was speaking with Matthias (Benkort), and currently it appears that there isn't a lot of motivation for anyone to run the mithril infrastructure since it's not tied to stake rewards.
- Ben: oh that's interesting, i had thought that Mithril would be rolled into the node directly. I was actually concerned because we hadn't seen it on the scope for the Chang Hardfork yet. But really we only see CIP 1693 there right now, though i beleive there are also a few minor plutus improvements such as Sum-of-Product generics. This makes me concerned as we may be waiting over a year for Mithril to land.
