# Developer Experience Working Group - March 21, 2023


# Attendance
Aleksei Seregin
Ben Hart
BeRewt
Ignacio
jamesdunseith
Jose Serquive
MattChain

Philip DiSarro
Randall
Romain Soulat
Steve Lockhart
waalge


# Minutes

1. Co-chairs
Ben: We're currently below the optimum number of co-chairs in case someone is travelling or sick. If you have 2-5 hours of spare time in your week and would like to look at a way to give back to the Cardano community, we'd really love to have you, please let us know via DM or post in the #devexp-general channel if you'd like to join us as part of the co-chair team.

2. Daylight savings issues
Ben: Last week and this week both had issues with the Discord invite because North America has changed to Daylight Savings while Europe has not. Hopefully we can catch this in advance next time.
waalge: There a google-calendar invite that should be able to track UTC.
Ben: I beleive that invite is run by Ignacio?
Ignacio: No I don't believe so.
Ben: Perhaps Anita or someone else at IOG then.
Ben: I don't know if there is a solution, I feel like daylight savings causes so much misery There must be some good solutions. unfortunately Discord does not allow you to lock to a particular timezone other than your own.  I will look into solutions if any exist, otherwise we'll just have to be vigilant.

3. Sync Time and Caching
Ben: So i kind of want to confirm a suspicion, Cardano Sync times are notoriously long, In particular i think DBSync at one point boasted a 5 day sync time. How badly are typical developers impacted by sync times for either the node or an indexer?
Marshall: the smart contract team has actually done a huge amount of work on DBSync and gotten the sync time down to 51 hours. There is also work on a lightweight chain indexer called Marconi, and outside of IOG there is a very fast indexer called kupo.
Ben: We use kupo internally at Mlabs quite a lot,  I didn't know about the improvements to DBSync, that's really great!  But i would still say that many tools including the node will have what i will call broadly 'an inconvenient amount of time' to sync up.  so i suppose I want to ask if a cache or snapshot would totally solve this issue?  how much do other developers care about getting a totally accurate, verified picture of the chain vs. being able to put through a test transaction ASAP?
waalge: This lines up with my own experience, however right now i typically get a snapshot of the chain and then the indexers sync up quite quickly.
Ben: IOG provides snapshots?
waalge: actually it's csnapshots.io
Ben: That's actually huge, and goes a long way to solving the problem, pre-synced indexers would be another step in the right direction, but this is great.
Marshall: who builds that?
Ben: it seems to be an SPO - 24/7 StakePool is the name


4. Effectiveness of the Group
Ben: Early on a recommended metric to measure the group's efficacy was 'How many proposals are written?' - personally i would argue this is a bad metric, because one of my personal metrics is about real-world impact. But there are alternate priorities this group can take - for example as a mutual support group. For me - i feel that projects that are identified as issues and then become proposals with sponsors who actually end up shipping something or making some new capability or way for developers to save time should measure the effectiveness of the group - however by that metric, we're not doing great. What are other people's feelings here.

Ignacio: I agree that real-world impact should be the measure of efficacy. IOG is in an odd situation here as we have limited resources and have provided mainly organizational assistance. this group has been the most consistent in terms of organization.
Steve: I wish this group was able to set some common priorities, it would be nice if IOG was represented more as one of us.
waalge: it's good to have a place to speak directly with IOG / have solidarity. At the same time we as individual projects have extremely limited resources in relation to IOG, so it seems like one of the best approaches is to help IOG guide the deployment of it's resources toward the best targets.
Randall: the ultimate metric would be to take some kind of measurement of the time necessary to take a competent developer in general, and train them to be a competent Cardano Developer.  Any time we can shrink that time, we have succeeded.
Ben: We'll have to wrap up there.  Thanks for your time everyone.
