# Minutes for Developer Experience Working Group - April 4th, 2023

Attendance
Anusheel
Alex
Ander Sutherland
BenHart
Computational
Ignacio
James Dunseith
Jose Seraquive
Joseph Fajen
Konstantinos Lombrou
MattChain
Marshall Swatt
Manu Gunther 
Simon Thompson
Romain Soulat
Santiago Carmuega
Sebastient Pereira

Minutes

Ignacio: Today we have Anusheel and Manu from Plank Labs presenting and end-to-end application they have built with PAB. Lets give a warm welcome.
Manu: For this application, we've worked to build transactions in Haskell, the same way we build the smart contract itself.  We yield the unbalanced Tx back to the Frontend for balancing  to work with the various light wallets.  For indexers, we initially used `chain-index`, but later we switched to blockfrost, however other indexers can easily be used here. In the last few months there have been a lot of advancements in new ways to build cardano transactions, but this is something we've been progressively working on for the past year or more. We can do a bit of a code tour - but maybe a Q&A format is best

Ben: Could you paste the link please? https://cardano-e2e-example.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

Ben: How are you doing Balancing and resource estimation?

Manu: Resource estimation is a seperate service we abstracted from `cardano-wallet` and created a seperate open source service. We balance on the frontend.

Marshall: How does this compare with the PAB that the plutus team has built?

Manu: it's the same PAB, the only modifications have been opensourced and PR's have been sent to the plutus-apps repo.  We have however used it piecemeal, to facilitate transactions with light wallets, which have a different set of demands. We did produce a client library for calling it from the frontend

Matt: How does it handle partial signatures?

Manu: PAB cannot produce signatures from a light wallet user, 

Ben: How do you reconcile issues with JSON formats not reflecting frontend language expectations? (BigInts)

Manu: It hasn't really come up for us.

Santiago: How does this compare to Atlas and other PAB's?

Manu: We also worked on Atlas with GeniusYield. The main issue with PAB is that it was monolithic and there was not clear seperation around which components should be used. Atlas is more modular.  With atlas you need to create your own webservice, you get that for free with PAB.

Manu: The main advantage here is that you get code sharing between Plutus contract and offchain tx building. We also provide comprehensive testing guides using the quickcheck approach.


Ben: Thanks very much to plank labs for putting this together & presenting.
