# Minutes for Developer Experience Working Group - February 14, 2023


### Attendance
Alexeusgr
Ignacio
Sebastian Pabon
Simon Thompson
Anita
Hugo
James Dunseith



#### Minutes

Ignacio: lack of maintainers seems to be the source of problems with docs and DevEx
Simon -  next week we have Q&A with maintainers of plutus-apps, they will share updates on whats upcoming.  
marconi(?)

Ignacio: round table? Q&A  
  
Alex: Action point - find questions for Q&A  
  
James: what confidence that plutus-apps will be supported?  
Problem: no go-to examples;  
  
Alex: stack exchange problems.  
  
Jose: 1 year plutus-app, works well,  
integration with tools like cardano-wallet could be improved;  
does not support Vasil features;  
documentation is not up to date with changes.  
  
