# Minutes for Developer Experience working group February 21

## Attendees
Alexeus
Andrew Sutherland
BenHart-Mlabs
Demmy
harryprayiv
igodlab
JamesDunsieth-gimbalab
jonathan777
Jose Seraquive
konstantinos.lambrou
Las
Mattchain
Philip DiSarro
Sebastian Pabon
Simon Thompson
The Ancient Kraken
waalge


## Minutes

1. Proposal for restoring Plutus-Starter support & maintenance.
- Ben: This proposal stems from a previous conversation (Feb 7), where Philip brought up the relative popularity and accessibility. I've written this basic proposal, so my ask is 'what is the burden of information/supporting evidence needed to move this forward?' (link to proposal PR:https://github.com/input-output-hk/Developer-Experience-working-group/pull/53/files ) 
- Simon: Clarifying the ask in a one-pager would be helpful.
- Andrew: This might be better as a series of seperate containers? then you can write code while you wait a week for sync time.
- Ben: sync time is a seperate issue, but generally i would say we need a cache that includes a fully synced testnet node in the future, because developers care much more about being able to place a transaction right now than necessarily having a perfect picture of chain history that is verified and pulled in a non-centralized fashion.   Multiple containers is fine. I would say the ask is for a budget adjustment to ensure that we're maintaining a solid docker-first approach to getting a reasonable developer environment up.
- JamesDunsieth: CI or manually managed?
- Philip: i believe nix can be leveraged to generate containers, I don't think it really matters if it's one container or many, it's really about pointing developers to a good set of defaults for (1) compiling scripts, and (2) for running a node to submit transactions.
- Waalge: Pab is a critical part of that story and while it may be possible to submit transactions, production deployment or usage with a light wallet is still an open question.
- Philip: PAB is very much still an open but seperate problem that we need to examine, however right now it takes students at emurgo academy more than a week often to get the latest cardano dependencies up and running and we're really looking for a set of good defaults. At this point when it comes to PAB, there are some fundamental design decisons that causes it to remain quite bad at working with light wallets, which have exploded in popularity. Perhaps in the future IOG can look at fully embracing something like CTL or Lucid, which are quite plug and play.
- Ben: To wit, they did fund CTL extensively last year.
- Philip: yes, but i mean embracing it in terms of education, acknowledging these tools as part of the best practices for building on cardano.
- Ben: Just to redirect, i'm still quite interested in understanding the requirement to move this forward
- Simon: elaborate on the scope / implementation (automated? manual)
- Ben: wouldn't that fall to someone like Konstantinos?  Choosing him just because he has the last commit on the existing repo. Moreover, isn't it an engineering decision that someone at IOG would make.
- Simon: Yes, but reviewing some options would be helpful.
- Andrew: comprehensive starter kit is difficult because of IOG internal organization, so it's very difficult to answer the broader questions about what it would take to move this forward.
- Ben: I'm sympathetic to those challenges, however for this group to have meaningful effect, it's critical to answer those questions.


