# Minutes For Developer Experience Working Group Meeting - Tuesday March 7, 2023


## Attendance
Anita Jovic
alexeusgr
BeRewt
BenHart-MLabs
Jose Seraquive
Sebastian Pabon
Thiago OUROS
Igodlab
Santiago Carmuega
waalge



## Minutes

1. Docs for Cardano-node-emulator

- Alexeusgr: I am working with this new package while building a contract using helios, along the way i will try to write docs or do a tutorial.
- Ben: That would be really beneficial, especially as it seems to be getting moved from another project. At MLabs we primarily use plutus-simple-model for these emulation checks,  be aware that it won't give you realistic behavior of the real chain, especially around budget calculation - there are a bunch of edge cases. the emulator is only checking if the plutus script succeeds.

2. Docs for Plutus-e2e-tests
- Alexeusgr: I will probably focus on cardano-node-emulator first
- Ben: yeah, it seems like this is a package for testing plutus-core itself?

3. e2e testing
- waalge: It would be great to discuss e2e tests more generally.
- Ben: 'e2e' has always been a bit tricky with Cardano. Lace wallet is open sourcing tools to use it with any network including private ones, Currently no other wallet supports arbitrary testnets so true e2e tests need to use a public testnet unfortunately.    the cardano-transaction lib also packages a fake wallet we can inject, this is used for running a headless browser and checking that your offchain code can function correctly and call the chain/indexers correctly.  Otherwise we do a lot of testing with `plutip` and `plutus-simple-model`, But we know other auditors that work exclusively with the node and bash scripts,  it's totally valid to do so, though you may lose some reproducibility.

4. naming the cardano-docs section for ecosystem tools.
- Anita: We have a request to add mesh docs from CardanoDocs, our main question is what should this be called?
- Ben: Any strong opinions beyond 'Cardano Ecosystem Tools'? (no additional suggestions)
- Ben: we can revisit next week if you like, but that's a decent name if IOG wants to ensure it's distanced somewhat from ecosystem projects.


